README.md, before:

# Agent Payments Protocol (AP2)

[![Apache License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/google-agentic-commerce/AP2)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/assets/ap2_graphic.png" alt="Agent Payments Protocol Graphic">
</p>

This repository contains code samples and demos of the Agent Payments Protocol.

## Intro to AP2 Video

[![A2A Intro Video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/yLTp3ic2j5c/hqdefault.jpg)](https://goo.gle/ap2-video)

## About the Samples

These samples use
[Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) and Gemini 2.5
Flash.

The Agent Payments Protocol doesn't require the use of either. While these were
used in the samples, you're free to use any tools you prefer to build your
agents.

## Navigating the Repository

The **`samples`** directory contains a collection of curated scenarios meant to
demonstrate the key components of the Agent Payments Protocol.

The scenarios can be found in the [**`samples/android/scenarios`**](samples/android/scenarios) and [**`samples/python/scenarios`**](samples/python/scenarios) directories.

Each scenario contains:

- a `README.md` file describing the scenario and instructions for running it.
- a `run.sh` script to simplify the process of running the scenario locally.

This demonstration features various agents and servers, with most source code
located in [**`samples/python/src`**](samples/python/src/). Scenarios that use an Android app as the
shopping assistant have their source code in [**`samples/android`**](samples/android/).

## Quickstart

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) package manager

### Setup

You can authenticate using either a Google API Key or Vertex AI.

For either method, you can set the required credentials as environment variables in your shell or place them in a `.env` file at the root of your project.

#### Option 1: Google API Key (Recommended for development)

1. Obtain a Google API key from [Google AI Studio](http://aistudio.google.com/apikey).
2. Set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable.

    - **As an environment variable:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_API_KEY='your_key'
        ```

    - **In a `.env` file:**

        ```sh
        GOOGLE_API_KEY='your_key'
        ```

#### Option 2: [Vertex AI](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai) (Recommended for production)

1. **Configure your environment to use Vertex AI.**
    - **As environment variables:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=true
        export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT='your-project-id'
        export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION='global' # or your preferred region
        ```

    - **In a `.env` file:**

        ```sh
        GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=true
        GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT='your-project-id'
        GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION='global'
        ```

2. **Authenticate your application.**
    - **Using the [`gcloud` CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install):**

        ```sh
        gcloud auth application-default login
        ```

    - **Using a Service Account:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS='/path/to/your/service-account-key.json'
        ```

### How to Run a Scenario

To run a specific scenario, follow the instructions in its `README.md`. It will
generally follow this pattern:

1. Navigate to the root of the repository.

    ```sh
    cd AP2
    ```

1. Run the run script to install dependencies & start the agents.

    ```sh
    bash samples/python/scenarios/your-scenario-name/run.sh
    ```

1. Navigate to the Shopping Agent URL and begin engaging.

### Installing the AP2 Types Package

The protocol's core objects are defined in the [`src/ap2/types`](src/ap2/types)
directory. A PyPI package will be published at a later time. Until then, you can
install the types package directly using this command:

```sh
uv pip install git+https://github.com/google-agentic-commerce/AP2.git@main
```

Commit message:

docs: Add Agent Factory Podcast to README

README.md, after:

# Agent Payments Protocol (AP2)

[![Apache License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/google-agentic-commerce/AP2)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/assets/ap2_graphic.png" alt="Agent Payments Protocol Graphic">
</p>

This repository contains code samples and demos of the Agent Payments Protocol.

## Intro to AP2 Video

[![A2A Intro Video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/yLTp3ic2j5c/hqdefault.jpg)](https://goo.gle/ap2-video)

### AP2 on The Agent Factory

[![The Agent Factory - Episode 8: Agent payments, can you do my shopping?](https://img.youtube.com/vi/T1MtWnEYXM0/hqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/T1MtWnEYXM0?si=QkJWnAiav0JAP9F6)

## About the Samples

These samples use [Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) and Gemini 2.5 Flash.

The Agent Payments Protocol doesn't require the use of either. While these were
used in the samples, you're free to use any tools you prefer to build your
agents.

## Navigating the Repository

The **`samples`** directory contains a collection of curated scenarios meant to
demonstrate the key components of the Agent Payments Protocol.

The scenarios can be found in the [**`samples/android/scenarios`**](samples/android/scenarios) and [**`samples/python/scenarios`**](samples/python/scenarios) directories.

Each scenario contains:

- a `README.md` file describing the scenario and instructions for running it.
- a `run.sh` script to simplify the process of running the scenario locally.

This demonstration features various agents and servers, with most source code
located in [**`samples/python/src`**](samples/python/src/). Scenarios that use an Android app as the
shopping assistant have their source code in [**`samples/android`**](samples/android/).

## Quickstart

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) package manager

### Setup

You can authenticate using either a Google API Key or Vertex AI.

For either method, you can set the required credentials as environment variables in your shell or place them in a `.env` file at the root of your project.

#### Option 1: Google API Key (Recommended for development)

1. Obtain a Google API key from [Google AI Studio](http://aistudio.google.com/apikey).
2. Set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable.

    - **As an environment variable:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_API_KEY='your_key'
        ```

    - **In a `.env` file:**

        ```sh
        GOOGLE_API_KEY='your_key'
        ```

#### Option 2: [Vertex AI](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai) (Recommended for production)

1. **Configure your environment to use Vertex AI.**
    - **As environment variables:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=true
        export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT='your-project-id'
        export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION='global' # or your preferred region
        ```

    - **In a `.env` file:**

        ```sh
        GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=true
        GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT='your-project-id'
        GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION='global'
        ```

2. **Authenticate your application.**
    - **Using the [`gcloud` CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install):**

        ```sh
        gcloud auth application-default login
        ```

    - **Using a Service Account:**

        ```sh
        export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS='/path/to/your/service-account-key.json'
        ```

### How to Run a Scenario

To run a specific scenario, follow the instructions in its `README.md`. It will
generally follow this pattern:

1. Navigate to the root of the repository.

    ```sh
    cd AP2
    ```

1. Run the run script to install dependencies & start the agents.

    ```sh
    bash samples/python/scenarios/your-scenario-name/run.sh
    ```

1. Navigate to the Shopping Agent URL and begin engaging.

### Installing the AP2 Types Package

The protocol's core objects are defined in the [`src/ap2/types`](src/ap2/types)
directory. A PyPI package will be published at a later time. Until then, you can
install the types package directly using this command:

```sh
uv pip install git+https://github.com/google-agentic-commerce/AP2.git@main
```
